- [Instructor] So, as we start to come to a conclusion
of this course,
I would be remiss if I didn't at least point out
that there is JPA and ORM,
where they're similar, where they're different,
and what they mean to an RDBMS system.
Now, first I'm going to start by talking about
why use JDBC itself?
Now, technology itself is all about trade-offs.
So, for every benefit you get from ORM,
you're going to get a problem.
And that's just the nature of what it does.
I can show you in most ORMs,
how to create a Cartesian product
by doing a simple one to many join multiple times
from a simple object itself.
That's usually not what you want.
Cartesian products are not a positive thing
out of a database.
So, every problem that you're solving with an ORM,
you're also causing new ones.
And that's one of the reasons why people like
using raw JDBC.
And one of the reasons that I personally advocate for it
when dealing with an RDBMS system.
JDBC gives you full control,
but you're doing so with a lot of manual work.
And a lot of that is repetitive work.
Copy and paste is not your friend when you write code,
but that often is what happens when we're doing JDBC,
because it is so repetitive.
And then JDBC gives your DBAs much more control.
And that's such often on teams
where the DBAs are very tight knit with the DevStack,
JDBC becomes the flavored technology of choice.
But not always.
Object relational mapping, or ORM systems
allow you to interact with the database
through the use of objects.
Now, technically it's a technique,
but often when we say ORM,
we're talking about the library
that implements this technique.
Now these tend to reduce code,
especially when you're dealing with results at mapping,
which is often what we find ourselves copy and pasting
in JDBC code,
and in fact, we did that in this course.
Hibernate is one of the most common implementations
of a library that uses ORM.
Now, JPA or Java Persistence API,
is the standard Java EE or Jakarta EE specification
for an ORM.
Once again, hibernate is an implementation of JPA.
Now this streamlines persistence to a standard format
and it reduces JDBC code with a focus on OOP.
But again, there's trade-offs.
What I find myself doing most often,
now granted I am a Java Spring developer,
is using JDBC with Spring
and using a named parameter, JDBC template.
By doing that, I get sort of the benefits of JPA
because I get this roadmap
where I write it once, and I use it many times.
I also get the benefit of JDBC
because I control all of my JDBC constructs,
all those SQL statements,
and I get named parameters,
which allows me to have code that is very easy to read.
So there is some middle ground that you can find
if you use your imagination,
and you'd look through different articles and details,
but you have to be willing to try new things out.
And the only way to know what you're going to like
and what you're not going to like, is by playing with them.
And we're going to talk about what's next coming up,
but keep that in mind.
Think about JPA.
Think about simple ORM.
Think about something like Spring data or Spring data JDBC
and find out which pattern works best for you,
as a developer, and your team, to increase productivity,
increase security,
and get you where you want to go faster.